.TH "MATTERHORN" "8" "November 26, 2014" "Opencast Matterhorn User Manuals" ""
.SH NAME
.PP
Opencast Matterhorn \[en] Open Source Lecture Capture & Video Management
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
matterhorn [ \-\-daemon | \-\-interactive | \-\-notty | \-\-version |
\-\-quit | \-\-help ]
.SH SUMMARY
.PP
Matterhorn is a free, open\-source platform to support the management of
educational audio and video content.
Institutions will use Matterhorn to produce lecture recordings, manage
existing video, serve designated distribution channels, and provide user
interfaces to engage students with educational videos.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show this help.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show Matterhorn version and exit.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-daemon
Run Matterhorn as \f[I]unmanaged\f[] daemon.
Please consider using init or systemd.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-interactive
Run matterhorn in interactive mode.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-notty
Run Matterhorn as foreground process in noninteractive mode.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-quit
Stop a previously started Matterhorn.
.RS
.RE
.SH SYSTEM DAEMON
.PP
Normally you should \f[I]not\f[] start Matterhorn directly unless you
want to have a look at the output for debugging purposes (This would be
the case if the Matterhorn service fails to start at all).
Instead you should run Matterhorn as service.
You can start the service with:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
%>\ service\ matterhorn\ start\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ (SysV\-init)
%>\ systemctl\ start\ matterhorn\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ (Systemd)
\f[]
.fi
.PP
You can check the status of Matterhorn anytime by executing:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
%>\ service\ matterhorn\ status\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ (SysV\-init)
%>\ systemctl\ status\ matterhorn\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ (Systemd)
\f[]
.fi
.SH GETTING STARTED
.PP
After installing Matterhorn and running it as system daemon (service
start matterhorn) open the browser of your choice and navigate to
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
http://localhost:8080/
\f[]
.fi
.PP
This is were you can find the Matterhorn Admin\-UI where you can manage
your recordings.
Matterhorn may need a couple of second to load completely.
During this time you might get some error like "Access Denied" or
"Internal server Error".
Do not worry about that, wait a couple of seconds and try again.
The errors should go away (They are not real errors but HTTP status
codes).
.PP
Now you should see a login page.
The default administrative credentials are:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
Username:\ admin
Password:\ opencast
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Using this credentials you can log in, start uploading videos, \&...
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
While Matterhorn comes preconfigured for testing you probably have to
modify the configuration if you start advanced testing or deploy a
productive system.
The most important things are configured in
/etc/matterhorn/config.properties
.TP
.B org.opencastproject.server.url
This is set to http://localhost:8080 by default, which means that
Matterhorn will only be usable from the local machine as localhost will
be used for all internal links, etc.
This is not a protection against access from the outside.
You should change this if your server should be accessible within a
network.
Set it to your domain name or IP address.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B org.opencastproject.security.admin.user
The user for the administrative account.
This is set to “admin” by default.
You should definitely change the credentials if your server is reachable
from the internet.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B org.opencastproject.security.admin.pass
The password for the administrative account.
This is set to “opencast” by default.
You should definitely change the credentials if your server is reachable
from the internet.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B org.opencastproject.security.digest.user and
The user for the communication between Matterhorn nodes.
This is set to matterhorn_system_account by default.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B org.opencastproject.security.digest.pass
The password for the communication between Matterhorn nodes.
This is set to CHANGE_ME by default.
.RS
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /usr/share/matterhorn
Software and data not modified by Matterhorn.
This includes Apache Felix, the Matterhorn modules and external
libraries.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B /etc/matterhorn
The Matterhorn configuration files (Felix and service configuration,
workflows, encoding profiles, etc.)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B /var/log/matterhorn/
The Matterhorn logfiles.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B /srv/matterhorn or /var/lib/matterhorn
Matterhorn storage.
This is the place were all the recordings, the archive, the Solr
indexes, etc.
are stored.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B /tmp/matterhorn
Temporary data which are not necessarily preserved between reboots.
This includes the felix\-cache and other temporary data.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/matterhorn
Matterhorn start script.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B /etc/init.d/matterhorn
SysV\-Init script.
.RS
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
.B The Opencast Project
http://opencast.org
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B IRC
Check out the #opencast IRC channel on freenode.
You might use the IRC web interface at
http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=opencast
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B Mailinglist
Have a look at the Opencast Google Groups:
.RS
.PP
https://groups.google.com/a/opencast.org/forum/#!forumsearch/
.RE
