
These terms relate in some way to Opencast

Term                | Meaning
--------------------|--------------------------
Bundle              | An encapsulated group of Java classes and resources that consume or provide a service to other bundles. See [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OSGi#Bundles) for more details.  Each bundle generally provides one or more components.
Component           | An OSGi service which provides some function(s).  Each Opencast service is generally its own component.  See Service for more details. Frequently called a Module within the Opencast community.
Engage              | An old name, since replace with Presentation, or (commonly) Player. When you see someone referring to engage they are talking about either the presentation profile (ie, 'it runs on the engage node' means it runs on your presentation node) or they are talking about the player that users interact with (Theodul, Paella, etc).
FFmpeg              | A computer program that can record, convert and stream digital audio and video in numerous formats. [FFmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org) is a command line tool that is composed of a collection of free software / open source libraries. Opencast uses FFmpeg for all video processing internally.
Karaf               | The Opencast project builds application code, Karaf is an Apache project which builds an [OSGi](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OSGi) container system which runs application code within it.  Opencast is a program which runs inside of Karaf, in the same way that your web browser runs inside your operating system.
Manifest            |  A structured XML description of a mediapackage.  In technical terms, this is a serialization of a mediapackage.
Mediapackage        | A group of media files, metadata catalogs, and related attachments which contain a recording.  Each recording in Opencast contains a mediapackage.
Modules             | Separate, modular units of software written to operate within Opencast.  Most services in Opencast exist within their own module.  Frequently called a Bundle within the Opencast community.
Paella Player       | An alternative Opencast playback tool.  Developed at the Universitat Politècnica de València, Spain.
Profile             | A group of bundles defined by the Opencast project to perform a specific task.  Each Opencast node type (admin, worker, presentation, etc) is a profile.
Search              | The Opencast service which provides the list of available recordings to the end user.  Also called the 'search index', and is the service in question when you read 'publishing to engage'.
Service             | A piece of code that provides something to someone or something.  This can be for external use (ie, the user) or internal use (ie, some other service within Opencast).  Contained within components.
SMIL                | (pronounced /smal/ "smile"), the *Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language*, is a W3C recommendedXML markup language for describing multimedia presentations. It defines markup for timing, layout, animations, visual transitions, and media embedding, among other things. SMIL allows the presentation of media items such as text, images, video, and audio, as well as links to other SMIL presentations, and files from multiple web servers. SMIL markup is written in XML, and has similarities to HTML. Opencast uses SMIL as part of its video editing processes.
SoX                 | A cross-platform (Windows, Linux, MacOS X, etc.) command line utility that can convert various formats of computer audio files in to other formats. It can also apply various effects to these sound files, and, as an added bonus, SoX can play and record audio files on most platforms. Opencast uses Sox for audio normalization purposes.
Tesseract           | A free optical character recognition engine. It was originally developed as proprietary software at Hewlett-Packard between 1985 until 1995. After ten years without any development taking place, Hewlett Packard and UNLV released it as open source in 2005. Tesseract is currently developed by Google and released under the Apache License , Version 2.0. Tesseract is considered one of the most accurate free software OCR engines currently available. Opencast uses Tesseract for slide text detection.
Theodul Player      | The current default Opencast playback tool. Developed at the University of Osnbrueck, Germany.
virtPresenter       | An Open Source lecture capture software developed at the University of Osnbrueck, Germany.
Workflow Definition | An XML file defining the steps which are used to transform the input files to the output files and formats within Opencast.
Workflow (process)  | The process which takes the input files and transforms them to the output files and formats within Opencast. Uses a workflow definition to specify the steps taken.
